---
layout: post
title: "CV"
description: "My CV"
modified: 2014-08-29 14:54:20 +0800
category: "CV"
tags: [CV]
image:
  feature: http://seeksky.qiniudn.com/19.jpg-clip.jpg
  credit:
  creditlink:
comments: true
share: true
alias: [/2014/08/29/CV]
---

# Jinlai Xu
Email: xujinlai@gmail.com

### **EDUCATION:**
**China University of Geosciences (Wuhan) (211)**     September 2012 - Present\\
Master of Engineering (expected)\\
Major: Software Engineering

**China University of Geosciences (Wuhan) (211)**     September 2008 - July 2012\\
Overall GPA: 88.6/100.0, Major GPA:92.9/100\\
Bachelor of Engineering\\
Major: Software Engineering

<!--more-->

### **RESEARCH INTERESTS:**
Computer Vision, Robotics, Cloud Computing, Cloud Computing Infrastructure.

### **RESEARCH EXPERIENCE**
**Robotics and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory**, China University of Geosciences\\
*Research Assistant*                                  September 2012 - Present

 * Reviewed related literatures
 * Lead the construction of the cloud computing platform for our faculty.
   * Virtualization solution design.
   * Hadoop deployment.
   * Support the experiment of Deep Learning in our lab.

**Robotics and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory**, China University of Geosciences\\
*Undergraduate Research Assistant*             July 2009 - July 2012

 * Reviewed related literatures.
 * Study the architecture of ROS(The Robot Operating System).
 * The National College Students Innovation Experiment Program:
   * **Quadrotor with 3D Indoor modeling**
     * Studied the theory of balancing the Quadrotor with the open source project MikroKopter.
     * Studied and implement the point clouds registration algorithm ICP and RANSAC on ROS(The Robot Operating System).
     * Used ASUS Xtion PRO (a device like Kinect) to get the point cloud data in indoor environment and evaluated the algorithm.

### HONORS & AWARDS
 + **National Scholarship**, Ministry of Education, China                2009-2010
 + **The Second Prize of fully autonomous humanoid robot soccer**, The Robot Soccer Tournament of China in Changchun                                    2009
 + **The First Prize of semi-autonomous humanoid robot soccer**, The Robot Soccer Tournament of China in Changchun                                      2009

### SKILLS
 + Languages:
   + Chinese - Native proficiency
   + English - Professional proficiency
 + Programming: Java, Python, C++
